(DOCSP-20071) Update TS Limitations (#275)
mongodb/docs-node: source/fundamentals/typescript.txt

For more information on object types, see the
`TypeScript handbook <https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/objects.html>`__.

Parameters that Extend Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following classes accept all non-recursive types that extend
the ``Document`` interface:

- `Collection <{+api+}/classes/Collection.html>`__
- `ChangeStream <{+api+}/classes/ChangeStream.html>`__

> To view an example of a recursive type, see the :ref:`<node-driver-limitations>` section.

Reviewer: When reading through this time, I wonder if my comment during our discussion about ordering information might apply here. You're mentioning an example of something that won't work before you show an example of a type/interface that does work.

Extend Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following classes accept all types that extends the ``Document`` interface

> and that are not recursive:

Author: I think this changes the meaning of the sentence from "all non-recursive types that both extend Document" to "all types that are either non-recursive or extend document" (which is not a correct statement).

Based off of this, I think this edit should not be taken.

> and that are not recursive:

Reviewer: To clarify, I'm not recommending you take a suggestion, but rather there's an issue with the sentence. The two distinct verb phrases are:
1) "accept all types that [extend] the Document interface"
2) "[accept ?] that are not recursive"

I wonder if "accept" has subject agreement as the subject is not Typescript but rather the classes. Maybe talking about "assigning" a type to an interface (if that happens to be correct) is more direct and idiomatic?

> and that are not recursive:

Author: I've updated the sentence to the following : The following classes accept all non-recursive types that extend
the ``Document`` interface:

Extend Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The following classes accept any :ref:`non-recursive <node-driver-recursive-type>`

Reviewer: How about "The following classes accept all non-recursive types that extend ..." ?
This could avoid confusion with the "any" typescript type and "all" is a stronger specifier.

Reviewer: Does it make sense to link non-recursive type to the examples that show a recursive type? Instead of this link, how about adding a sentence here that introduces the recursive type example for anyone not familiar?

      :start-after: start-no-key
      :end-before: end-no-key

To view an example of a mutually recursive type, which is not supported by the

> preceding classes, see the :ref:`<node-driver-limitations-mutual-recursion>` section.

Reviewer: Since the classes aren't directly before this text, perhaps it's worth mentioning them again or linking back to it, which is how the style guide suggests using the term "preceding".

      :start-after: start-no-key
      :end-before: end-no-key

Parameters of Any Type
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The following classes accept all type parameters that are not recursive:

Reviewer: Would this be more uniform and therefore easier to read sequentially if it was the same format as the intro sentence in the previous section?
According to the style guide, we should avoid using negatives (e.g. "not") when possible.

Author: Updated to:

> The following classes accept all types that both extend
the ``Document`` interface and are recursive:

I think this is an equivalent sentence to:

> The following people sell cars that both drive well and are blue.

I have checked both of these sentences against multiple grammar checkers and cannot find any problems.

- `FindCursor <{+api+}/classes/FindCursor.html>`__
- `AggregationCursor <{+api+}/classes/AggregationCursor.html>`__

To view an example of a recursive type, see the :ref:`<node-driver-limitations>` section.

You can find a code snippet that shows how to specify a type for the ``FindCursor``
class in the
:ref:`Find Multiple Documents Usage Example <node-driver-find-usage-example-code-snippet>`.

.. _node-driver-limitations:

Limitations For Driver Version {+version+}
----------------------------------

You cannot specify a recursive type as a type parameter in version {+version+} of the driver.

If you specify a recursive type, the driver raises the following error:

.. code-block:: text

   error TS2615: Type of property 'r' circularly references itself in mapped type '{ [Key in keyof RecursiveType]: [Key, ...NestedPaths<RecursiveType[Key]>]; }'.

A recursive type is a type that references itself. You can update
the :ref:`Pet <mongodb-node-typescript-pet-interface>` interface
to be recursive by adding the following field:

.. code-block:: typescript
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   interface Pet {
      pet: Pet | null;
      name: string;
      age: number;
      cute: true;

>    }

Reviewer: Do pets have pets? What purpose do the other fields serve, or can they be removed?

Naming aside, is this a more clear way to represent recursion for your example:
```
interface Pet {
  name: string;
  pet?: Pet[];
}
```
https://joshtronic.com/2020/04/19/recursive-types-and-interfaces-in-typescript/

Will leave this up to you (and external review if you seek one).

Author: Updated to explain that now a Pet can have a Pet.

The other fields are to match the earlier interface definition. I've removed the "cute" field from both in order to simplify this. I think having 2 fields in the earlier type definition makes sense, as it seems odd to specify an object type with 1 field (an object type must be specified to extend document).

I agree replacing `pet` with `pet?` increases clarity. I do not feel that making `pet` an array increases clarity (seems to just change the meaning of the class from a pet can have one pet to a pet can have many pets).

To track the fix for this limitation, see 
`NODE-3852 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/NODE-3852>`__

> in JIRA issue tracker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the JIRA issue tracker.
```

> If you must apply a recursive type to your documents, use version 4.2 of

Reviewer: Should this be "classes" instead of "documents" to match the information presented in the earlier sections?

Author: I'll change to "classes".

Note: I think both work here. I think "classes" ties better with what is earlier in the page, but "documents" is more in-line with the task the reader is performing (enforcing structure for documents).

Any Type
~~~~~~~~

> The following classes accept any type parameter that is not recursive:

Author: I don't believe so. The Collection type [parameter must extend `Document`](https://github.com/mongodb/node-mongodb-native/blob/00be68f/src/collection.ts#L166), where as this is [not true for the FindCursor type parameter ](https://github.com/mongodb/node-mongodb-native/blob/00be68f/src/cursor/find_cursor.ts#L34).

> The following classes accept any type parameter that is not recursive:

Reviewer: What I meant here is regarding my comment about  "all" vs "any". https://github.com/mongodb/docs-node/pull/275#discussion_r783258884

- `FindCursor <{+api+}/classes/FindCursor.html>`__
- `AggregationCursor <{+api+}/classes/AggregationCursor.html>`__

To view an example of a recursive type, see the :ref:`<node-driver-limitations>` section.

You can find a code snippet that shows how to specify a type for the ``FindCursor``
class in the
:ref:`Find Multiple Documents Usage Example <node-driver-find-usage-example-code-snippet>`.

.. _node-driver-limitations:

Limitations
-----------

> You cannot specify a recursive type as a type parameter for {+driver-long+}

Author: Responding by paragraph:

- listed out the classes individually to try and clarify this
- I don't believe the suggested edit is accurate. It is not "classes that extend document", but rather some classes have type parameters that extend document.
- TODO: respond

> You cannot specify a recursive type as a type parameter for {+driver-long+}

Reviewer: > I don't believe the suggested edit is accurate. It is not "classes that extend document", but rather some classes have type parameters that extend document.

Good to know -- why don't we workshop this together so that we can come up with a description that the reader and I can more quickly understand?

classes. The following code snippet defines a recursive type: 

.. code-block:: typescript

   interface RecursiveType {
      r: RecursiveType | BaseCase;
      i: number;
   }

   type BaseCase = "done"; 

The following code snippet uses the preceding recursive type:

.. code-block:: typescript

   const database = client.db("<your database>");
   const col = database.collection<RecursiveType>("<your collection>");
   const document = await col.findOne({ i: 1 });

The preceding code snippet raises the following error at compile time:

.. code-block:: text

   error TS2615: Type of property 'r' circularly references itself in mapped type '{ [Key in keyof RecursiveType]: [Key, ...NestedPaths<RecursiveType[Key]>]; }'.

> If you must use a recursive type as your document schema, use version 4.2 of

Author: Updated to "if you must apply a recursive type to your documents"

Context: The Node docs call type arguments for documents 'TSchema' as it raises a type error if your document doesn't conform to the type (behaving like a schema in systems like Kafka). This isn't explained on the page, however so it has been removed.

class in the
:ref:`Find Multiple Documents Usage Example <node-driver-find-usage-example-code-snippet>`.

.. _node-driver-limitations:

Limitations
-----------

.. _node-driver-recursive-type:

You cannot specify a recursive type as a type parameter for {+driver-long+}
classes. Click the following tabs to see a recursive type and a code snippet that

> uses the recursive type and raises an error: 

Reviewer: There are too many conjunctions in this sentence. Could you split it into two? On a related note:

I think we should refrain from using tabs (and possibly expecting readers to identify them as such) to show two or more disparate items (in this case, a type declaration and code snippet that implements the declaration). Throughout our docs, we generally only use them to  show how to accomplish one task using different tools or drivers because only one of them applies to their use case.
Not only are they different items, they cannot view both at the same time (without opening another browser) which might be easier to read. Keep in mind that some readers print out the documentation, so it's a disadvantage not to be able to see some of the information. I see some examples of this disparity in MongoDB Analyzer docs as well (e.g. "Code Snippet" and "Warning" which you might consider revisiting.

Author: I removed the tabs and updated the sentence. I am open to updating other content that includes tabs, but I think it might be good to have a concrete guideline accepted across docs teams to make the update against before updates are made.

I do not believe the style guide takes a stance on the usage of tabs. The only content I could find [dealing with tabs was a tutorial describing their usage](https://docs.mongodb.com/meta/tutorials/tabbed-content/). Would it make sense to add a "Tabs" entry to the style guide describing proper usage, and then file tickets according to the guidelines arrived at?

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Recursive Type

>       :tabid: recursive-type

Reviewer: Suggestion: I wonder if it could be useful to add a sentence that explains when you might use a recursive type in MongoDB and for the example to demonstrate that.

Author: I'm not sure I agree with this suggestion. My reasons are as follows:

- You would use a recursive type for a collection that contains a recursive structure (such as a phone tree). I'm not sure describing the real world example would contribute to the message of the section (don't use a recursive type), but would increase the length (and most likely complexity) of the page.
- This page is for [Lucas level readers](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-node/pull/247) who are familiar with recursion and recursive data structures. I'm not sure a real world example will provide much value for these readers, as they likely are able to relate recursive data structures to real world examples independently.

      .. code-block:: typescript

         interface RecursiveType {
            r: RecursiveType | BaseCase;
            i: number;
         }

         type BaseCase = "done"; 

   .. tab:: Code Snippet
      :tabid: code-snippet

      The following code snippet uses a recursive type:

      .. code-block:: typescript

         const database = client.db("test-db");

>          const col = database.collection<RecursiveType>("test-collection");

Reviewer: Should there be some consistency in the code examples within the page? This placeholder is "test-collection", but the example in Extend Document is `"<your collection>"`.

         const document = await col.findOne({ i: 1 });

      The preceding code snippet raises the following error at compile time:

      .. code-block:: text

         error TS2615: Type of property 'r' circularly references itself in mapped type '{ [Key in keyof RecursiveType]: [Key, ...NestedPaths<RecursiveType[Key]>]; }'.

> If you must use a recursive type to specify a schema for your documents,

Reviewer: Simplify the sentence for clarity:
"If you must use a recursive type in your document schema..."

use version 4.2 of the {+driver-long+}.

> To track the progress of mitigating this limitation in version {+version+} of

Reviewer: This sentence needs a more clear subject. E.g.
See the NODE-3852 JIRA ticket to track the fix for this limitation.

class in the
:ref:`Find Multiple Documents Usage Example <node-driver-find-usage-example-code-snippet>`.

To view an example of a mutually recursive type, which is not supported by the
preceding classes, see the :ref:`<node-driver-limitations-mutual-recursion>` section.

.. _node-driver-limitations:

> Limitations For Driver Version {+version+}

Reviewer: While reading through this section, I wasn't able to find the information about what the limitations are quickly. I wonder if having a bulleted list of limitations that linked to the sections would be useful. The bulleted list should summarize what the limitations are rather than contain category names (current subtitles).

Reviewer: 1. "For" is a preposition which shouldn't be capitalized in titles unless it's the first word
2. The preposition associated with "Limitations" is usually "of". Let me know if there's some specific exception in which "for" is more appropriate.

----------------------------------

> The following subsections describe the TypeScript specific limitations of

Reviewer: I'm not sure we use "subsections" anywhere, just "sections". Readers aren't really able to differentiate this as it's more related to rst syntax, so there isn't much reason to include the specifier.

version {+version+} of the {+driver-long+}. 

> Many limitations of the {+driver-short+} relate to **recursive types**.

Reviewer: I think "Many limitations of the <driver>" isn't an accurate generalization. What are the other limitations of the driver as a whole? Why are most of them related to recursive types?

Author: Update to "Many" to "All" as the page only discusses limitations related to recursive types.

A recursive type is a type that references itself. You can update
the :ref:`Pet <mongodb-node-typescript-pet-interface>` interface
to be recursive by allowing a pet to have its own pet. The following is the
recursive ``Pet`` interface:

.. _node-driver-limitations-recursive-pet:

.. code-block:: typescript
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   interface RecursivePet {
      pet?: RecursivePet;
      name: string;
      age: number;
   }

Recursive Types and Dot Notation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The {+driver-short+} cannot provide type safety within nested instances of

> recursive types referenced through **dot notation**. Dot notation is a property
> access syntax for navigating BSON objects.

Reviewer: Not sure "property access" is a common term, so maybe the sentence could be simplified:

```suggestion
recursive types referenced through **dot notation**. Dot notation is the syntax you can use to navigate nested BSON objects.
```

> For example, the following code snippet references a nested instance of the

Reviewer: "For example" seems unnecessary and disconnected with the previous sentence (definition of dot syntax). Usually, you use "for example" to describe a concept from the previous sentence.

```suggestion
The following code snippet references a nested instance of the
```

:ref:`RecursivePet <node-driver-limitations-recursive-pet>` interface
with an incorrect type using dot notation, but the TypeScript compiler

> does not raise an error:

Reviewer: I expected to find a description of why the TypeScript compiler does not raise an error, but couldn't find one. Could you include an explanation?

Author: Added an admonition explaining why this is the case.

.. code-block:: typescript
   :emphasize-lines: 3

   database

>       .collection<RecursivePet>("your-collection")

Reviewer: Could the placeholders for collection be consistent across examples?

      .findOne({ "pet.age": "Spot" });

The following code snippet references a top-level instance of the
``RecursivePet`` interface with an incorrect type and raises a type error:

> .. tabs::

Reviewer: Wouldn't it be better to be able to show both code snippet and error without having to select the tab?

Author: Apologies, still trying to break my tabs habit.

   .. tab:: Code Snippet
      :tabid: code-snippet

      .. code-block:: typescript
         :emphasize-lines: 3

         database
           .collection<RecursivePet>("your-collection")
           .findOne({ pet: "Spot" });

   .. tab:: Error
      :tabid: error

      .. code-block:: text
                  
         index.ts(19,59): error TS2769: No overload matches this call.
         The last overload gave the following error.
         Type 'string' is not assignable to type 'Condition<Pet>'.

If you must have type safety within nested instances of recursive types,

> you must write your query or update without dot notation.

Author: This is a shortcoming of the MongoDB documentation that I'm not sure should be addressed here in the TS page.

I've [created a ticket to capture the unit of work of re-adding the "Query without Dot Notation" admonition that used to be on this page to somewhere in the MongoDB documentation](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-20479) and linking this content to that section. This is a fairly lengthy admonition that should probably be tied to the server [Dot Notation page](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/document/#dot-notation) rather that Node -> Fundamentals -> TypeScript.

To learn more about dot notation, see 
:manual:`Dot Notation </core/document/#dot-notation>`
in the MongoDB manual.

.. _node-driver-limitations-mutual-recursion:

Mutual Recursion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You cannot specify a mutually recursive type as a type parameter in version

> {+version+} of the driver.

Reviewer: Does this apply to all versions of the driver? If not, here's how I might structure this to prevent errors:

- Separate all text related to a specific version into a separate file
- Name the separate file "<identifying name>-4.3.txt" and include it
- It is then easier for anyone to identify that the text only belongs to v4.3.

This may become increasingly valuable when we need to apply changes to multiple driver versions of this page in the future.

Reviewer: Applies to all instances.

If you specify a mutually recursive type, the TypeScript compiler raises the
following error:

.. code-block:: text

>    error TS2615: Type of property 'r' circularly references itself in mapped type '{ [Key in keyof MutuallyRecursive]: MutuallyRecursive[Key] extends MutuallyRecursive ? [Key] : MutuallyRecursive extends MutuallyRecursive[Key] ? [...] : MutuallyRecursive[Key] extends readonly (infer ArrayType)[] ? MutuallyRecursive extends ArrayType ? [...] : ArrayType extends MutuallyRecursive ? [...] : [...] : [...'.

Reviewer: Could you truncate the full error without losing any important information? For example:

> error TS2615: Type of property 'r' circularly references itself in mapped type...

Or is there something in the error message that you want the reader to notice? If so, could you include an explanation?

Author: Truncated the error message as suggested.

A mutually recursive type exists when two types define themselves relative

> to each other. You can update the

Reviewer: I think this might require information about one of the types being a recursive type. I think if two types refer to each other and neither is recursive, that's not a mutually recursive type.

> to each other. You can update the

Reviewer: Removed a comment because of my own misunderstanding.
I wonder if it could be helpful to clarify "define themselves relative to each other" as that is ambiguous. Maybe "mutual recursive types exist when two interfaces contain a property type of the other".

Reviewer: Just for clarification, I used "property type", which seems consistent with TypeScript nomenclature according to their documentation. An example of a property type of a Type in your MutuallyRecursivePet interface is "string" for (name) or "number" (for age). Let me know if my terminology is incorrect and what the appropriate term is if so.

:ref:`Pet <mongodb-node-typescript-pet-interface>` interface
to be mutually recursive by allowing a pet to have a handler, and defining a
handler to have a pet. The following is the mutually
recursive ``Pet`` interface:

.. code-block:: typescript
   :emphasize-lines: 2, 8

   interface MutuallyRecursivePet {
      handler?: Handler;
      name: string;
      age: number;
   }

   interface Handler {
      pet: MutuallyRecursivePet;
      name: string;
   }

If you must apply a mutually recursive type to your classes, use version 4.2 of

> the {+driver-long+}.

Reviewer: If I recall correctly, I think we decided as a team to only use the long version of the name if it both appears in an intro section and is the first mention of it.

Reviewer: Similar comment for other instances.

class in the
:ref:`Find Multiple Documents Usage Example <node-driver-find-usage-example-code-snippet>`.

To view an example of a mutually recursive type, which is not supported by the
:ref:`preceding classes <node-mongodb-type-paramaters-any-type>`,
see the :ref:`<node-driver-limitations-mutual-recursion>` section.

.. _node-driver-limitations:

Limitations For Driver Version {+version+}
----------------------------------

> .. include:: includes/limitations/{+version+}.rst

Author: I've moved the entire section into the limitations file. Agree it makes more sense to have the entire section within the file (weird to have everything but the heading there), and a "limitations file" should not be a requirement for a successful build (hopefully in the future a limitations file is no longer needed).

> .. include:: includes/limitations/{+version+}.rst

Author: Unfortunately, the header is placed at an `h3` level if drawn from the included file. I've added the header back to the original TypeScript file. I agree this will require the addition of a new limitations file when the driver is updated to v4.4.

:ref:`Find Multiple Documents Usage Example <node-driver-find-usage-example-code-snippet>`.

To view an example of a mutually recursive type, which is not supported by the
:ref:`preceding classes <node-mongodb-type-parameters-any-type>`,
see the :ref:`<node-driver-limitations-mutual-recursion>` section.

Type Safety and Dot Notation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you specify a query or update with **dot notation**, the {+driver-short+}
provides type safety if your query or update does not 
:ref:`reference a nested instance of a recursive type <node-driver-recursive-types-dot-notation>`.
Dot notation is a syntax you can use to navigate nested JSON objects.

The following code snippet defines the ``ClassificationPet`` interface,
which includes a ``classification`` field that enables you to specify the
genus and color of dogs and cats:  

.. code-block:: typescript

   interface ClassificationPet {
     name: string;
     age: number;
     classification: { genus: "Canis" | "Felis"; color: string };
   }

> The following code snippet correctly raises a type error by specifying

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code snippet correctly raises a type error when specifying
```
